# adb

You can get `adb` by installing Android Studio.

Main takeaways:

- `adb` consists of a client, a server, and a daemon (`adbd`)
- client & server run on our computer, while the daemon runs on our device

# Configuring the Terminal

If you have installed `adb` via Android Studio you still need to configure the `PATH` variable to make sure your shell is able to find the `adb` tool.

**For Windows**

First, you need to find where `adb` is located on your computer. If you installed Android Studio with default settings, the adb tool is usually found in the `C:\Users\[Your-Username]\AppData\Local\Android\Sdk\platform-tools directory`. Replace `[Your-Username]` with your actual username.

- Right-click on the Start button and select System.
- Click on Advanced system settings on the left sidebar.
- In the System Properties window, go to the Advanced tab and click on the Environment Variables button at the bottom.
- Edit the Path Environment Variable: In the Environment Variables window, under the System variables section, find and select the Path variable, then click Edit.
- In the Edit Environment Variable window, click New and paste the path to the `platform-tools` folder where `adb` is located.
- Click OK to close each of the open dialogs and apply the changes.

**For macOS**

Android Studio will install `adb` into `~/Library/Android/sdk/platform-tools`, so we can modify our PATH by running:

```sh
export PATH=~/Library/Android/sdk/platform-tools:$PATH
```

To persist this change, add above line to the bottom of your shell initialization script (`~/.zshrc` by default on macOS).

# Test adb

To ensure `adb` is working, just run:

```
adb version
```

If `adb` is installed and found, this should give you an output similar to:

```sh
$ adb version
Android Debug Bridge version 1.0.41
Version 34.0.1-9680074
```

# Using adb

**adb devices**

Run `adb devices` to get a full list of devices. If you have multiple devices installed, you can:

- Specify the active device using the `-s` parameter, for example: `adb -s emulator-5554 shell`
- Specify to use a single USB device using the `-d` parameter, for example: `adb -d shell`

**adb shell**

Using `adb shell` you get dropped into a regular Linux shell on your device. Hit Ctrl+D or type exit to leave the shell.